Hi.
We didn't this lecture.
Where are you going to learn about dictionaries.
So we have learned about arrays and in arrays we have ordered collections right.
We have indexes.
So we have learnt about sets and in sets.
We didn't have ordered collections we had or unordered collections but we had unique elements and inside
of dictionaries we will have key value pairings.
So we're going to have a key and re going to have and they assign the value of that key inside of a
dictionary.
So maybe you cannot imagine what it looks like right now but you will understand why.
And then we're going to use dictionaries once we do the example.
So suppose that you have and favorite movie array one more time.
But rather than just saving the favorite movies you want to save the respective directors of that movies
as well.
For example rather than just saying pulp fiction you have to say pulp fiction and Pulp Fiction is directed
by court.
Quentin Tarantino OK so how do you do that.
You can't put those values into two separate areas right.
You can't have one Barb.
My favorite directors are Ray over here in which you will list your favorite directors like Quentin
Tarantino Guy Ritchie and then you may create another robbery in which you put the respect to values
for those directors like you can go like does a Tarantino and then Guy Ritchie.
And I can create another array just like this.
And then the first element I can say pulp fiction and then the second elements I can say Lock Stock
Two Smoking Barrels and this will do work but it fool Don't be as efficient as a dictionary because
I can go like this in a dictionary Pulp Fiction and Tarantino.
So all you have to do is just put a column between Key and the valley server the first one is key and
the second one is the valley of death key for Guy Ritchie I'm going to go lock stock and hit a column
and I will say Guy Ritchie for example.
So let us do one more example over here.
The Dark Knight and this will be directed by Christopher Nolan.
OK Chris Tubb for Marlo.
So this is a dictionary.
It's very similar to Ray but you put a column between Key and values so if you do my favorite directory
is as you can see this is now a string to string dictionary and key is string and the value is string
as well.
Of course it could be string to integer integer to a string.
It doesn't matter.
So can I do this.
Of course I can't because dictionaries do not have indexes.
You could have gone for my favorite directors Pulp Fiction and that would be OK.
So rather than giving indexes I give he's in here.
So when I provide a key it will return the value to me so I can go for the Dark Knight for example.
It will just say Christopher Nolan as you might see on the right hand side.
So this is how you work with a dictionary.
K. this is how you create this is how you operate with dictionaries.
For example I can go and say that Pulp Fiction is not Tarantino anymore It's Quentin Tarantino.
Okay.
And this will change the value of deterrents.
This is now.
Quentin Tarantino if I go over and just print my favorite director's dictionary I will see that the
pulp fiction is directed by Quentin Tarantino rather than Tarantino.
So I can actually change the values afterwards.
Furthermore I can do the same thing in the areas as well.
Right.
So let's go to a one of the areas.
OK.
Let's go to number three here.
So where do we have a number.
Yeah.
Here in the my number or a can I do something like that.
My number first elements I mean the zero.
OK.
So this is one.
Right.
If I run this I will see one on the right hand side.
But what if I want to change this to 15.
Can I do that.
Of course I can.
If I run this it will show me that my numbers 0 is now 15.
And if I call my number a 0 1 more time over here then I will see 15.
So this is basically the same thing as coming here and saying My favorite directory is Pulp Fiction
is not anymore Tarantino is Quentin Tarantino.
OK so how do you append a value like we did in the array section if you do.
My favorite directors that offends you will see that there is no method as a point or insert or put
you will have to do like this.
You will say that my favorite directors and let me do seven samurai for example.
OK.
And the director of the seven samurai will be a cure crew soldier.
So the seven samurai is now we kill to Akira queries soba.
OK.
So if I call my favorite directors one more time so let me cut this print and put it over here and let
me run this.
And as you can see now I see my value in my favorite director's dictionary.
So that's how you append and you Ali.
And that's how you change the value over here as well.
So this is again a key value pairing structure.
And as I said before of course this wouldn't have to be string to string.
You can create something like my dictionary and this dictionary just suppose that you're building your
fitness app.
So running is 100 calories.
Swimming is 200 calories and basketball is 300 calories OK.
You can go like that if you just call my dictionary run for example.
So as you can see even here it says String to int dictionary so I can just say my dictionary run and
if I run this I will get one hundreds here.
So this is good right.
We're going to use dictionaries a lot when we build apps as well as you can see.
These are not ordered collections like arrays because it doesn't need to be ordered anyway because we're
not using indexes over here.
We're just calling every value by their keys.
So we have key value pairings in dictionaries.
So we have learned a lot.
Right.
So we have learned about arrays.
And if you want to have ordered objects like structured objects use arrays if you want to call them
by index use arrays if you want to how every element uniquely in your set in your dataset then you sets
if you want to have a key value pairing then you should go for dictionaries.
And again we're going to see a lot of examples regarding those structures.
And don't worry about it.
So let us stop here following the next lecture we're going to start learning about loops.